# A1: Player Controller
In this assignment, you will be implementing a basic Unity player controller. If you wish so, the extra credit section will guide you towards a more advanced player controller.

## Grading
- This assignment is 15% of your final grade, thus, there will be 15 points for this assignments.

## Guideline
- As always, you are encouraged to collaborate. 
- All helper functions provided in the skeleton repo are there for you to use and fiddle around with. You are welcome to delete, modify, and make use of them however you wish.

## 1.1 Input Handling (2 points)
You will be using Unity's new `Input System`. This new input system is written to be event-driven, easily configurable through the UI,
and easily changing mappings that allow game state changes, as well as different sets of control configurations (Keyboard vs Controller, for example).

Your first task is to complete the `HandleMovement` script. 
- `RemapCameraAngle` is provided for you to fix third-person camera forward direction with input
- You will need to call `GameInputManager` to obtain the input Vector2.

## 1.2 Character Controller (8 points)
Checkout Unity's `CharacterController` API https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/CharacterController.html

A CharacterController allows you to easily do movement constrained by collisions without having to deal with a rigidbody.

In particular, these methods/fields could be of help:
```csharp
/// <summary>
///   <para>Supplies the movement of a GameObject with an attached CharacterController component.</para>
/// </summary>
/// <param name="motion"></param>
public CollisionFlags Move(Vector3 motion) => this.Move_Injected(ref motion);
```

```csharp
/// <summary>
///   <para>Was the CharacterController touching the ground during the last move?</para>
/// </summary>
public extern bool isGrounded { [NativeName("IsGrounded"), MethodImpl(MethodImplOptions.InternalCall)] get; }
```

But first, you will need to setup the `CharacterController` in your Unity Project by doing the following:
- Attach a `CharacterController` script to your Player `MonoBehaviour`.
- Configure the `CharacterController` _carefully_. In particular, pay attention to what the `Skin Width` field does.
- Use https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/class-CharacterController.html to setup your `CharacterController`

Next, you will need to change the player's position by using some of `CharacterController`'s provided functions.

You should make it possible to edit the Player's movement speed in the Unity Editor (hint: `[SerializeField]`)

Don't forget to use `Time.deltaTime` to make sure your movements are consistent throughout all possible machines your game will be deployed to!

You will need to handle both turning and moving. You may use the provided `Turn` helper.

## 1.3 Falling (5 points)
Now you will implement fall with the following specification:
- If the Player falls for more than 2 seconds, you the player dies. **(2 points)**
  - For dying, you can `print("dead")` for now, but always feel free to do something extra!
- The Player needs to fall with some kind of gravity (you may choose how fast). **(3 points)**
  - You may want to keep track of a `currentGravity` field and modify the velocity you use in your `controller.Move()`

## Extra Credit: 1.4 Running (3 points)
In this section, you will extend your walking state to a running state by holding down the shift button! You will need to do roughly the following:
- Create a input mapping in `GameInputManager`.
- In your `HandleMovement`, check if the Shift key is held down or not. Change to move/run state accordingly.
  - You may need to add a `Run` state in the `PlayerState` enum!

## Extra Credit: 1.5 Dashing (7 points)
In this section, you will extend your `PlayerController` by implementing a Dash. You should break down this task into several components:
- Key binding (input mapping)
  - You need to handle situations when the Player spams the dash button
  - You also need to handle situations when Player uses WASD to move while dashing. This is typically not allowed! You will need to add a check for this.
- Direction to dash into (`transform.forward`? Cursor direction?)
- Speed of the dash.
  - How do you initiate a task that will spam across many frames?
  - Look into C# Coroutines! Although we will also touch on this later.

## Extra Credit: 1.6 Jumping (5 points)
You are on your own now! Make the player jump!