# A2: Interaction

What are the possible interactions in a game?

These can be roughly categorized into several types:
- **Player-to-interface(self)**:
  - Skills and abilities
  - Inventory
  - UI, menu and settings
- **Player-to-player**:
  - Cross-network gameplay
  - Communication
- **Player-to-environment**:
  - Examinable objects
  - Interactable objects: puzzles, gathering resources, rotating objects
  - NPCs: dialogues, cooperative combat

In A2, you will be implementing the following:
- An interface for interactable objects
- A simple ability system

## Grading
This assignment is 15% of your final grade, thus, there will be 15 points for this assignments.
There will also be 5 extra points available.
This is broken down to the following:
- Interface for interactable objects (3 points)
  - Examinable objects (6 points)
  - Two interactable objects of your choice (6 points)
- Simple ability system (5 points)

## Interactable Objects (15 points)
Objects interact differently, so this is the perfect place to establish a parent class which implements a `Interact` function.
The class is already established for you: `InteractableObject.cs` (of course its called this lol).

Interaction often starts with a key-click. 
How does this key-click transfer into calling the "right" `Interact` function on the "right" interactable object?

You should look into Unity Physics and this function in particular:
```csharp
    /// <summary>
    ///   <para>Computes and stores colliders touching or inside the sphere.</para>
    /// </summary>
    /// <param name="position">Center of the sphere.</param>
    /// <param name="radius">Radius of the sphere.</param>
    /// <param name="layerMask">A defines which layers of colliders to include in the query.</param>
    /// <param name="queryTriggerInteraction">Specifies whether this query should hit Triggers.</param>
    /// <returns>
    ///   <para>Returns an array with all colliders touching or inside the sphere.</para>
    /// </returns>
    public static Collider[] OverlapSphere(
```

Once you obtain the possible list of `InteractableObject`s, you should find a way to rank them and pick out the best one. 
One such metric is simply the closest one.

You should also make your code as extendable as possible.
Game developers have changing business logic often (personal experience), and refactoring occurs so often that it is often painful.
In particular, you should think about
- What if some objects are disabled/not able to interact? Examples include:
  - Simply disabled in hierarchy (you shouldn't worry about this case if you use `OverlapSphere`)
  - Is being interacted with right now
  - Already interacted too many times (often, things can be interacted more than once)
  - The object is suddenly destroyed
  - The object teleports to somewhere outside of the interaction radius
  - Object can no longer be interacted with after some global switch has been turned off
- What if your player is currently not able to interact? Say the player is currently...
  - Having a dialogue with a NPC
  - In the middle of an attack
  - Currently interacting with another object

The list goes on and on (pain.exe).

After you have setup your base code, you should finish the `InteractableExamine` object, specified as follows:
- The interactable can be interacted `x` times. (of your choice)
- Each time you interact, a different response is displayed on an _in-game UI_ above the object.

Implementing all the above are worth **9 points**.

The rest **6 points** can be obtained by implementing **two** more interactable objects of your choice (3 points each).
You may choose form the following, ranked from easy to hard (in my opinion):
- Item Dropper: drops some item upon interaction
- VFX Player: plays some kind of particle system/vfx upon interaction
- Portal: changes into a different scene when you interact with it
- Lever: makes a door open (needs proper animation).
- Push-block: able to push the block around upon interaction
- Ladder: makes the player climb up a ladder (no climbing animation is needed, just change the transform)
- Dialogue (NPC): able to initiate a conversation with the player